# Bulk segregant analysis identifies merozoite surface protein 1 polymorphism as a mediator of alternative invasion pathways in Plasmodium falciparum

Plasmodium falciparum invasion into red blood cells (RBCs) is mediated by multiple receptor-ligand interactions, with different parasite strains varying in their utilization or invasion pathways. To date, members of the PfRH and PfEBA protein families have been implicated in invasion pathway usage through genetic knockouts. Here, we used a forward genetics approach to identify parasite determinants that mediate alternative invasion pathways. We assessed the invasion pathways of eight strains previously used in genetic crosses, measuring invasion into RBCs treated with enzymes cleaving subsets of proteins (trypsin/T and chymotrypsin/C) and sialic acid (neuraminidase/Nm). NHP1337 and MKK2835 strains were selected due to their contrasting invasion phenotypes into T/C and low T/Nm RBCs and the prior availability of pools of recombinant progeny. To map polymorphisms associated with distinct invasion pathways, we cultured progeny pools in enzyme-treated RBCs for 20 days. Following selection, progeny pools were analyzed by whole genome sequencing to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) via bulk segregant analysis (BSA) associated with specific phenotypes. Enhanced growth in T/C-treated RBCs was associated with a QTL on Chr. 13 centered on the PfRH family gene rh2b, previously known to mediate a T/C-sensitive invasion pathway, validating our approach.  An additional QTL on Chr. 9 was identified following selection on T/Nm-treated RBCs, centered on the msp1 gene, a novel determinant not previously associated with invasion pathway utilization. Ongoing research is exploring how specific msp1 polymorphisms mediate alternative invasion pathways. BSA is a powerful, unbiased approach for identifying parasite polymorphisms associated with RBC tropism in P. falciparum.

